In this lesson we're going to examine how
to use 4 loops with tuples.
And in all honesty working with tuples is
very similar to working with this,
but we'll still go through the process
just so you can see how it looks.
So we're going to start a new program.
We'll call it 4 tuples dot p y.
So the first thing we'll do is create a
tuple of 5 numbers, 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5.
This time rather than just display the
numbers.
Let's call that numbers instead of number.
We'll compute the sum.
And we'll also print each number.
And then we'll print, the sum is plus
string sum.
And let's run this first program.
So we'll save, we'll leave it open cuz
we're gonna use it again.
And we'll type fortuples.py.
And there are numbers, and the sum is 15
which is correct.
So let's comment out this code.
And let's look at another example using
strings.
Clearly working with tuples is exactly
like working with lists, so let's look at
a different example, and just demonstrate
how to compute with tuples and for loops.
What we're gonna do is we're gonna create
a tuple of words.
We'll display the words first.
Let's run that code.
Let's
clear the screen.
So
there are our words.
Then we want to figure out which word is
the longest.
So to do that, we're gonna compare the
links
of each word as we go through the list.
What we need to do is, we need to identify
the word that's the longest.
So what we're gonna do is, we're going to
use index to access into the tuple.
And we're gonna create a variable max, and
assign it the index position 0.
So were going to assume that the first
word in the tuple is the longest word.
Then we're going to create a range,
starting at 1, through the
length of the tuple words, and then we're
gonna do a comparison.
So we're going say if the len.
Words sub i is greater than the len of
words sub max.
In other words, 0 position.
Then, max becomes that index value.
And that's all we have to do.
Then we'll say print, the longest word is,
plus words sub max.
So what's going to happen is that we're
going to assume that now is the
longest word that assumption was made when
we set x equals 0 then we'll look at
is and compare it's length to now it's not
the longest so max will not change
then we'll go to time the length of time
is longer then the length of now.
So now max will become that value, which
will be 2.
So right here, max will be assigned 2.
Then we'll compare the next word, the,
which is not longer than time.
So max will end up at 2.
Then when we print the longest word, this
value
will be words sub 2, which will be time.
So let's save the program.
Clear the screen.
And there's our result.
So this for loop is just a very typical
way to find a maximum value in a sequence
of elements by assigning the first element
to be the maximum value.
And then performing a comparison of the
subsequent value and then replacing
the value of max with an index if indeed
some
other element is larger than the initial
element that was assigned by default.
So that wraps up this lesson on for loops
and tuples.
And we're ready to move to the next lesson
where
we're going to examine the use of for
loops with dictionaries.